# Description of the RNADB pipeline

In an effort to make the components that go into the end user website to search for and download 
the postprocessed sequence data in RNADB easiest to manage, the pipeline has been reduced to the 
following key modular components:
1. **Raw sequence data:** [*(repository link)*](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-sequence-data) 
   This component is used to manage the raw sequence
   data used to generate the full set of user-viewable data on the RNADB search page. To append 
   new sequence entries into RNADB, the core component files need to be added here first before 
   processing them in further stages of the pipeline. This repository is justified as a separate 
   piece of the pipeline to conform to a best practice design pattern in software engineering where 
   we separate data from implementation. There is 
   [documentation](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-sequence-data/blob/master/README.md) 
   available for the minimally necessary files to add to this data set to support a new sequence 
   entry in RNADB.
2. **GTFold Python bindings:** [*(repository link)*](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/GTFoldPython) 
   This component provides a C-source-based set of so-called *Python bindings* for the historical 
   [GTFold](http://gtfold.sourceforge.net/guide.html) commandline utility. 
   It effectively allows us to call the functionality that GTFold brings natively in a Python 
   script by including a Python library (importing a wrapper module) without a previous hassle 
   that obtained this data by stringing together shell calls with various commandline options 
   set and then groking (or grepping) the output for relevant numerical data. This wrapper 
   library is invoked from within the RNADB construction script (see below), but in general, 
   can be reused in other new Python scripts that need to obtain similar computations from 
   CT-based sequence data. The wrapper library [example script](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/GTFoldPython/blob/master/Python/Testing/RunBasicInterface.py) and 
   the [prepared documentation files](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/GTFoldPython/tree/master/Python/Docs) 
   describe how to build, configure and use these Python bindings as a standalone unit.
3. **RNADB construction script:** [*(repository link)*](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-construction) 
   This component is a set of Python scripts that are used to generate the postprocessed data available 
   to users after it has been uploaded into RNADB via its backend interface (see below). After calling 
   the script with relevent options on the set of sequence data to be processed (see instructions below), 
   the user obtains the processed data zipped up into files that can be directly imported into 
   RNADB. The [output files and formats](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-construction/blob/master/FILE_INFO.md) 
   resulting from calling the main script are well documented.
4. **RNADB web administration backend:** [*(repository link)*](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-reloaded/tree/master/Admin) 
   This component allows authorized users to login and make changes to the RNADB site. 
   Administrative actions enabled on a site that runs this so-called *backend* code includes the ability 
   to add / modify / delete papers to which we associate sequences and their data, as well as the ability 
   to add / append / modify / delete sequence data that will be searchable by users on the public frontend 
   website. The repository houses the PHP / MySQL and related script sources to implement the backend. 
   These scripts need to be uploaded and executed on a secure webserver (like Apache) to actually 
   constitute the implementation of the backend in the RNADB pipeline. 
5. **RNADB web searchable frontend:** [*(repository link)*](https://github.gatech.edu/gtDMMB/RNADB-reloaded/tree/master/FrontEnd) 
   This component implements the public part of the online interface to RNADB visible to endusers. 
   It relies on the sequence data uploaded via the backend administrative interface to allow 
   users to search for sequences based on several parameters and download the zipped results in the 
   form of the postprocessed files generated by the RNADB construction script. The repository 
   houses the PHP / MySQL / JavaScript source files to implement (make work) the so-called *frontend* 
   interface. Note again that these scripts need to be uploaded and executed on a publicly viewable 
   webserver (like Apache) to actually constitute the implementation of the frontend in the RNADB pipeline.